LRES Hires Frank Obregon as New Commercial Appraisal Manager

- Experienced industry veteran to expand LRES’ commercial appraisal offerings -
ORANGE, Calif.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- LRES Corporation, a residential and commercial real estate services company that provides nationwide valuations, REO asset management and HOA solutions for the mortgage and real estate industry, recently announced that it has hired Frank Obregon to serve as its commercial appraisal manager.
In this position, Obregon will lead the LRES commercial appraisal department, including management of the team’s operations. He will also oversee the development of the company’s commercial product line and will assist in the identification of business opportunities.
Obregon holds nearly 40 years of experience in the real estate industry. Before joining LRES, he served as director of commercial valuation for PCV Murcor, where he managed the team responsible for the production of appraisal reports and reviews. Prior to that position, Obregon held a regional manager role with Ameriquest Mortgage.
“Frank’s advanced knowledge and proven success in the commercial real estate industry make him a valuable addition to our team as LRES continues to expand offerings and create efficiencies in the commercial valuation industry,” said Mark Johnson, president of LRES.
“I look forward to collaborating with the LRES team to establish highly modernized processes for LRES’ growing commercial valuation division,” said Obregon.
About LRES
LRES Corporation, based in Orange, Calif., is a residential and commercial real estate services company providing nationwide valuations, REO asset management and HOA solutions for the mortgage and real estate industry. With more than 17 years of continued growth, LRES specializes in helping its customers effectively meet compliance requirements and limit the financial risks associated with property matters in the mortgage origination, servicing and default markets. For more information about LRES, visit its website at www.lres.com .
Follow LRES
Twitter: LRES Twitter
LinkedIn: LRES LinkedIn
View source version on businesswire.com : https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20180531005988/en/
LRES Corp.
Sarah Wroble, 404-276-5551
sarah@williammills.com
Source: LRES Corporation