Ejaz Elahi Rejoins Dresner Partners as Managing Director Healthcare

CHICAGO, May 30, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Dresner Partners, a leading FINRA-registered, middle-market investment bank and IMAP member firm, is pleased to announce that Ejaz Elahi has rejoined the firm as a managing director to support the continued growth of Dresner Partners’ award-winning healthcare practice.
Ejaz Elahi has rejoined Dresner Partners as managing director, healthcare practice.
Prior to rejoining Dresner Partners, Mr. Elahi spent six years as a managing director with top-tier management consulting firms including Deloitte and PwC where he provided strategic advisory services to a wide spectrum of healthcare industry participants, including hospital systems, payers and alternate-site providers. Previously, Mr. Elahi was a founding partner of Life Sciences Group, Inc., a diagnostic imaging provider, and spent four years at Ponder & Co. where he co-established the firm’s healthcare merger and acquisition (M&A) practice.
Mr. Elahi also spent six years as an M&A banker, initially with Citicorp and Salomon Smith Barney in New York where he focused on the utilities and energy industries, and later with ABN AMRO in Chicago where his primary role was M&A transaction management in the healthcare industry.
“Dresner's tradition of providing comprehensive investment banking and specialized advisory services to the healthcare services and product sectors is unique in the industry, and this is my primary reason for returning to the firm,” said Mr. Elahi. “We are focused on long-term relationships with health systems, post-acute and alternate-site providers, and product manufacturers and payers that are founded on providing solutions across a broad spectrum of client needs. Additionally, our deep understanding of the evolving structure of the industry and its interrelationships, particularly as manifested in recent unconventional M&A activity, allows us view each assignment from an uncommonly unique perspective.”
“We are very pleased to have Ejaz Elahi rejoin the firm. His return is true testament to the lasting relationships Dresner strives to foster with its employees and clients,” said Steven M. Dresner, President of Dresner Partners and Vice Chairman of IMAP. “Ejaz’s extensive industry knowledge and transaction experience will help maximize the value our talented investment banking team provides to our clients.”
Mr. Elahi has participated in over 60 M&A transactions, including the $1.1 billion sale of the 14-hospital Health Midwest system to HCA. Other notable transactions Mr. Elahi completed while at Dresner included the restructuring and subsequent sale of Medical Resources, Inc. (a 60-site outpatient diagnostic imaging provider) to 10 separate buyers, and a series of non-core asset sales for the Carle Foundation (a large community hospital system). He also has experience in other highly regulated industry sectors including electric utilities and telecommunications.
Mr. Elahi holds an MBA from the University of Chicago, a Master of Science in Computer Science from the Illinois Institute of Technology, and a Bachelor of Science in Electrical and Computer Engineering from the University of Wisconsin, Madison.
About Dresner Partners / IMAP
Dresner Partners is a FINRA-registered, middle-market investment bank headquartered in Chicago, with offices in New York City, Fort Lauderdale, Fla., and Irvine and Palo Alto, Calif. For nearly 25 years, Dresner Partners has provided financial advisory services to middle-market companies throughout the world, including institutional private placements of debt and equity, merger and acquisitions advisory, financial restructuring & corporate turnarounds, valuations and strategic consulting services. Dresner Partners is a member of IMAP, the world’s leading global mergers and acquisitions partnership focused on the middle market. Founded in 1973, IMAP has more than 60 offices across the globe that work together seamlessly to deliver exceptional value to its clients. An affiliated company, Dresner Corporate Services, is a strategic communications firm specializing in public and investor relations. More information is available at www.dresnerpartners.com or http://www.imap.com/city?city=Chicago . You can also follow Dresner Partners on Twitter at www.twitter.com/DresnerPartners .
For Media Inquiries
David Gutierrez, Head of PR and Corporate Development, (312)780-7204,
dgutierrez@dresnerco.com
For Investment Banking Inquiries
Steven M. Dresner, President, (312)780-7206, sdresner@dresnerco.com
Ejaz Elahi, Managing Director, (630)430-9002, eelahi@dresnerco.com
A photo accompanying this announcement is available at http://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/0f18f91c-33de-4660-89ff-ab70fd6fe512
Source:Dresner Partners