Schmitz Brings Extensive Commercial Banking Leadership to Heartland Financial USA, Inc. Board of Directors

DUBUQUE, Iowa, May 30, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Heartland Financial USA, Inc. (NASDAQ:HTLF), today announced that Martin J. Schmitz has been elected to serve as a member of Heartland’s Board of Directors. Mr. Schmitz, who currently serves as a Director for Citywide Banks, has also been elected Chairman of the Board of Directors for Citywide Banks. The Heartland Director and Citywide Chairman roles will both become effective June 1, 2018.
Headshot of Martin J. Schmitz
“Mr. Schmitz’s experience enhances our community bank model as he brings a wealth of commercial banking leadership experience based in our high-growth, western region,” Lynn B. Fuller, Chairman and CEO, Heartland, said. “His leadership will further support the Company in pursuing market opportunities and generating long-term shareholder value.”
Mr. Schmitz has previously served as Chairman of Citywide Banks which was acquired by Heartland Financial USA, Inc. in 2017 and simultaneously merged with Centennial Bank and Trust. Mr. Schmitz represented the second generation of family leadership for the bank’s holding company, its 12 branch locations and subsidiary businesses. Previously as Chairman, he oversaw business development and the bank’s commercial banking operations. He was with the organization for 21 years and transitioned the bank from a $275 million organization to a 1.4 billion organization at the time of sale.
Mr. Schmitz is currently a trustee on the Regis University Board. Mr. Schmitz also serves on the Board of the Boys and girls Clubs of Metro Denver and as a Director for Citywide Banks. He previously served as Chairman of the Bankers Bank of the West and Chairman of the Colorado Bankers Association.
About Heartland Financial USA, Inc.
Heartland is a diversified financial services company with assets of approximately $11.2 billion. The Company provides banking, mortgage, private client, investment, treasury management, card services, insurance, and consumer finance services to individuals and businesses. Heartland currently has 125 banking locations serving 93 communities in Iowa, Illinois, Wisconsin, New Mexico, Arizona, Montana, Colorado, Minnesota, Kansas, Missouri, Texas and California. Additional information about Heartland is available at www.htlf.com .
About Citywide Banks
Citywide Banks, is a subsidiary of Heartland Financial USA, Inc. (NASDAQ:HTLF). Citywide Banks is a state-chartered, community-invested bank with assets of approximately $2.3 billion and banking centers located across Colorado's Front Range, Foothills and Mountain communities. Citywide Banks is committed to delivering responsive service, local expertise, and comprehensive financial tools for Colorado businesses and families. For more than 50 years, Citywide Banks has been dedicated to finding ways it can impact its local community and to move Colorado forward. Visit www.citywidebanks.com to learn more. Citywide Banks is a member FDIC and an Equal Housing Lender.
A photo accompanying this announcement is available at http://www.globenewswire.com/NewsRoom/AttachmentNg/3bb3add5-177d-4087-9945-c9c4ed1c841a
CONTACT: Laura Hughes Executive Vice President Chief Marketing Officer (563) 589-2148 lhughes@htlf.com
Source:Heartland Financial USA, Inc.